Allrecipes member Marian comments this
is an easy vegan friendly falafel made
using dried garbanzo beans and
ingredients you already have in your
cupboard
no eggs or breadcrumbs either as filler
just tasty falafel it's not much more
work than using canned beans but the
taste is phenomenal and authentic start
by rinsing 1 pound of dried garbanzo
beans thoroughly under cold running
water
discard any discolored or bad beans and
carefully remove any debris once the
beans are clean cover them with cold
water and allow the beans to soak
overnight keep an eye on them because
you'll probably have to add water
several times during the soaking process
the next day begin by prepping the other
ingredients start by quartering one
onion
then peel and quarter one potato mince
four cloves of garlic
squeeze two teaspoons of fresh lemon
juice
now rinse the soaked garbanzo beans with
fresh water and drain them place the
garbanzo beans into the bowl of a food
processor add the onion
and the potato
you
cover the bowl and process this mixture
until it's finely chopped
pour the bean mixture into a mixing bowl
leaving about one cup of it in the
processor bowl add the garlic to the
processor bowl half a cup of cilantro
leaves one teaspoon of ground coriander
and one teaspoon of ground cumin add in
two teaspoons of salt a half of a
teaspoon of ground black pepper and a
half teaspoon of cayenne pepper process
this mixture to blend it thoroughly
once the mixture is blended add the
reserved garbanzo bean mixture back into
the processor bowl add in the lemon
juice along with 1 tablespoon of olive
oil and 1 tablespoon of all-purpose
flour process the falafel until the
mixture resembles a coarse meal
transfer the falafel mix back to the
mixing bowl
cover and refrigerate it for at least
two hours when you're ready to cook the
falafel add 2 teaspoons of baking soda
into the mixture and stir until the
baking soda is well blended
dampen your hands and form the falafel
dough into balls
making each ball about one-and-a-half
inches in diameter
place them on a parchment paper lined
baking sheet
when all the dough is formed pour enough
canola oil into a deep pot or skillet to
be 1 to 2 inches deep heat the oil over
medium-high heat to 365 degrees cook the
falafels in batches four or five at a
time turning them frequently so they
turn uniformly golden-brown about 5
minutes for each batch when the falafels
are done drain them on paper towel
serve the falafels hot
Allrecipes member Marian so jess --tz--
that you serve your falafel with typical
falafel fare such as lettuce tomato
cucumber and a squeeze of lemon